Best Practices: Storage and Architecture (#2488)
dfinity/portal: docs/developer-docs/setup/best-practices/architecture.mdx

# Architecture 

## Overview 

> One of the most important decisions when designing a dapp is the determining the project's architecture. Three commonly used project architectures include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the most important decisions when designing a dapp is determining the project's architecture. Three commonly used project architectures include:
```

> - **Single canister projects**: Contain a single canisters that contains the entire project's functionality. This may be a single service, a frontend webpage, or both within a single canister. Benefits of single canister projects include:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Single canister projects**: Consists of a single canister that contains the entire project's functionality. This may be a single service, a frontend webpage, or both within a single canister. Benefits of single canister projects include:
```

    - Simplified management and maintenance.

    - A lower cost than some multi-canister projects (though this depends on several factors). 

    - Can be a good starting place for new developers as they learn about developing on ICP. 

    Example use cases:

    - Hosting a webpage or website.

    - Hosting a simple service, such as a calculator.

    - Hosting a simple game.

    - Hosting a simple dapp with frontend and backend code together in a single canister. 

- **Multi-canister projects**: Contains multiple canisters that divide the project's functions into several canisters with specific purposes. Multi-canister projects are the default project architecture generated by the `dfx new` command. The most common multi-canister architecture consists of a canister for the project's frontend assets and a canister for the dapp's backend code. Multi-canister projects are also commonly used when it makes sense to place different reusable services into separate canisters. Benefits of multi-canister projects include:

    - Better scalability than single canister projects.
    
    - Upgrading individual services may be easier. 

>     - Canisters providing a reusable service can be configured as ['pullable'](/docs/current/developer-docs/setup/pulling-canister-dependencies) and re-used in other projects through [`dfx deps`](/docs/current/references/cli-reference/dfx-deps). 

Reviewer 2: Should we also mention inter-canister calls and how they work?

Author: That's a great idea, I will make that revision 👍🏻

    - Canisters providing a reusable service can be configured as ['pullable'](/docs/current/developer-docs/setup/pulling-canister-dependencies) and re-used in other projects through [`dfx deps`](/docs/current/references/cli-reference/dfx-deps). 

>     - Multi-canister projects utilize [inter-canister calls](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/tutorials/developer-journey/level-2/2.2-advanced-canister-calls/), which are calls made between two or more canisters. 

Reviewer: This is not a benefit, is it? It's just a fact that multi-canister projects will have to use inter-canister calls. If anything, I'd argue that usually adds some complexity to handle all scenarios properly so I am not sure I'd put it as a benefit.

Author: Removed this line
